..
  Created by: mike garcia
  To: Serve as the landing page for the EGES

.. note:: As this is a soft launch version, there are some known issues:

   * Best practices are alphabetical. For |Maturity1| maturity, we have a prioritization in :doc:`Maturity by BP Mapping </maturity/maturity_bp_mapping>`. For the other maturities, we'll prioritize using the `Community Defense Model <https://www.cisecurity.org/insights/white-papers/cis-community-defense-model-2-0>`_, but we're still working on that.
   * Some graphics currently only render well in light mode or dark mode, but not both.
   * Some mappings to CIS Controls are still missing.
   * Only phase 1 best practices are done. :doc:`BP Index </bp/bp_index>` lists the current best practices and, at the bottom of the list, those we're still working on.
   * Some terms and acronyms aren't yet defined in the glossaries.
   * The PDF has some additional blank pages that are getting autogenerated.

.. important:: We're looking for any and all feedback on this guide, but would greatly appreciate any of the following:

   * Best practices that we're missing. See :doc:`BP Index </bp/bp_index>` for the current best practices and, at the bottom of the list, those we're still working on.
   * Additional actions within any given best practice.
   * Additional tools we should know about and include.
   * Feedback on readability, especially for Maturity 1.
   * Great names for our three maturity levels.
   * Spots where graphics would help.

The Essential Guide to Election Security
===============================================

Want to skip straight to the action?

* Determine your :doc:`maturity level </maturity/determine_maturity>`
* See :doc:`best practices <maturity/maturity_bp_mapping>` for your maturity

To first learn more, read on...

A Best Practices Resource for Election Professionals
--------------------------------------------------------

The `Center for Internet Security <https://cisecurity.org>`_ (:term:`CIS`) has developed this Essential Guide to Election Security to serve as a first-stop resource for election officials to learn about best practices in election security. This can aid the process of building a program designed to meet individual needs and abilities of any given election office.

This Guide considers the wide range of technical capabilities and resource availability among the many thousands of election offices in the United States. While providing guidance for all organizational maturities, it emphasizes guidance for small jurisdictions without extensive cybersecurity resources available to them. The most important practices are included for those jurisdictions, with opportunities to ramp up as they mature.

It's an online guide and is continually updated, though readers can easily export it as a PDF. Read more about this Guide and how it came to be in our :doc:`about this guide </appendices/about_the_guide>` appendix.

Who should use this Guide?
----------------------------

This Guide helps election officials and their staffs understand their organization's cybersecurity readiness and take steps to improve. It is for jurisdictions of all of sizes and types, though which best practices apply to you will depend on several factors, including, but not limited to:

* The type of jurisdiction (state vs. county vs. municipality),
* The structure of election administration in a given state (top-down vs. bottom-up),
* The types of election equipment owned, and
* How IT responsibilities are shared with other functions in the jurisdiction, such as when IT is shared with the rest of the county.

Election technology providers and other stakeholders will also find much of the information useful as they consider how their work impacts outcomes in election administration and security.

How do I use this Guide?
----------------------------

The Guide is organized into several sections:

#. An introduction,
#. A description of :doc:`maturities <maturity/maturities>` and how they are used in the document,
#. A set of :doc:`best practices <bp/bp_index>` for organizations to implement, and
#. Additional references, tools, and related information.

You can get more detailed information this Guide and how to use it in our :doc:`how to <appendices/how_to_guide>`.

Identifying Your Organization's Security Lead
--------------------------------------------------------

Regardless of the size of your office, one of the most effective steps to increasing your security posture is identifying someone who you'll hold accountable for making progress in examining your current maturity status, maintaining existing security processes, implementing best practices, and taking additional steps towards increasing your security posture.

This individual should own and maintain the process of improving your cybersecurity posture, whether you use this Guide to do so or any other resource. Accountability matters!


A Little Encouragement Before You Start
--------------------------------------------------------

Many elections officials may not consider themselves security or IT professionals. This Guide takes this into consideration. In addition to implementing the best practices for your maturity, we encourage you to read through the entire Guide. It can provide you an understanding of the types of actions you may want to take as you continually improve your cybersecurity posture.

If you find yourself not understanding something, be empowered to reach out to the EI-ISAC elections team at |eiisac_email| and trusted partners and peers at the federal, state, and local levels for guidance and support.

---------------

*This Guide was made possible through support from the Democracy Fund. The content of this Guide is the sole responsibility of CIS and may not reflect the views of its funders.*
